libs/blueprint/docs/ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

# Architecture

![blueprint architecture](../assets/BlueprintArchitectureOverview.png)

The blueprint framework provides a set of building blocks for creating systems
that can parse, validate and manage the lifecycle of blueprints.

A blueprint is a specification of resources the can be deployed to a upstream provider.
Providers are implemented on a per-namespace basis and there are no limitations around the type
of providers and resources that can be implemented in the model this library providers.

The blueprint specification can be found [here](https://celerityframework.com/docs/blueprint/specification).

The mechanism is focused on parsing and validating blueprints along with managing the life cycle
of blueprint instances with interfaces for you to implement your own resource providers
and state containers.

This does not facilitate the persistence of blueprints themselves or any type of versioning/diff checking
on blueprint specifications. If your application needs this, you'll need to implement that layer within your application or use a separate helper library.

The blueprint library does support caching blueprint specifications in their expanded form to make loading blueprints
that have been previously loaded without modifications more efficient.
This is significant as it allows skipping the need to parse each occurrence of a `${..}` substitution in the blueprint spec.

The state container provides an interface that allows cleaning up old revisions of blueprint instances,
management of retention policies is not in the scope of this library
and should be implemented by applications or other helper libraries that extend the blueprint framework.

Authentication and authorisation is out of scope for this library and should be implemented by applications or helper libraries that extend the blueprint framework.

## Loader (container.Loader)

```go
type Loader interface {

    Load(
        ctx context.Context,
        blueprintSpecFile string,
        params bpcore.BlueprintParams,
    ) (BlueprintContainer, error)

    Validate(
        ctx context.Context,
        blueprintSpecFile string,
        params bpcore.BlueprintParams,
    ) (links.SpecLinkInfo, error)

    LoadString(
        ctx context.Context,
        blueprintSpec string,
        inputFormat schema.SpecFormat,
        params bpcore.BlueprintParams,
    ) (BlueprintContainer, error)

    ValidateString(
        ctx context.Context,
        blueprintSpec string,
        inputFormat schema.SpecFormat,
        params bpcore.BlueprintParams,
    ) (links.SpecLinkInfo, error)

    LoadFromSchema(
        ctx context.Context,
        blueprintSchema *schema.Blueprint,
        params bpcore.BlueprintParams,
    ) (BlueprintContainer, error)

    ValidateFromSchema(
        ctx context.Context,
        blueprintSchema *schema.Blueprint,
        params bpcore.BlueprintParams,
    ) (links.SpecLinkInfo, error)
}
```

The loader deals with loading a spec from a file, a pre-loaded schema or a string, unmarshalling the JSON or YAML
and validating each resource in the spec with the configured resource providers.

Pre-loaded schemas are useful for caching expanded blueprint schemas to make loading blueprints that have been previously loaded without modifications more efficient. You can make use of the [BlueprintCache](#blueprintcache-cacheblueprintcache) to store and retrieve expanded blueprint schemas either side of loading a blueprint.

This contains methods for loading a blueprint container that can be used to deploy
and stage changes for instances or simply validating a spec without loading a blueprint container for it.

A loader needs to be instantiated with a map of namespace -> resource providers and a state container.
An example of a namespace would be `aws/`.

The library comes with a default container loader that should meet all your needs.

## Blueprint Container (container.BlueprintContainer)

```go
type BlueprintContainer interface {

    StageChanges(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        paramOverrides core.BlueprintParams,
    ) (BlueprintChanges, error)

    Deploy(ctx context.Context, instanceID string) (string, error)

    Destroy(ctx context.Context, instanceID string, revisionID string) error

    Rollback(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        revisionIDToRollback string,
        prevRevisionID string,
    ) error

    SpecLinkInfo() links.SpecLinkInfo
}
```

The blueprint container deals with deploying or staging changes for an instance of a blueprint spec.
It is a container for a single blueprint spec that talks to the resource provider to stage and deploy changes.
It also uses the resource provider to get the latest state of resources from the external system represented
by the provider.
The container also talks to the state container to load blueprint instances, save changes after deployments
along with retrieving state for instances and resources in those instances.

The blueprint container needs to be instantiated with a a state container, a map of resource names -> resource providers, a blueprint spec
and a spec link info provider.

The library comes with a default blueprint container that should meet all your needs.

## Spec Link Info Provider (links.SpecLinkInfo)

```go
type SpecLinkInfo interface {

    Links(ctx context.Context) ([]*ChainLink, error)

    Warnings(ctx context.Context) ([]string, error)
}
```

The link info provider deals with extracting links from a spec to build out a chain link whilst catching some potential issues
with links in a given spec.

The link extractor needs to be instantiated with a map of resource names -> resource providers and a blueprint spec.

The library comes with a default link info provider that should meet all your needs.

## Blueprint Spec (speccore.BlueprintSpec)

```go
type BlueprintSpec interface {

    ResourceSchema(resourceName string) *schema.Resource

    Schema() *schema.Blueprint
}
```

The blueprint spec deals with providing the schema of a blueprint, its resources and a `*core.MappingNode` representation of the resource specification. The resource specification is everything under the the `spec` mapping in the
YAML or JSON input blueprint. The spec must be a `*core.MappingNode` to allow for the usage of substitutions (with `${..}` syntax); a concrete, user-defined struct would not allow for this.

The library comes with a default blueprint spec that should meet all your needs.

## State Container (state.Container)

```go
type Container interface {

    GetResource(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        resourceID string,
    ) (ResourceState, error)

    GetResourceForRevision(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        revisionID string,
        resourceID string,
    ) (ResourceState, error)

    GetInstance(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
    ) (InstanceState, error)

    GetInstanceRevision(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        revisionID string,
    ) (InstanceState, error)

    SaveInstance(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        instanceState InstanceState,
    ) (InstanceState, error)

    RemoveInstance(ctx context.Context, instanceID string) error

    RemoveInstanceRevision(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        revisionID string,
    ) error

    SaveResource(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        resourceID string,
        resourceState ResourceState,
    ) error

    RemoveResource(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        resourceID string,
    ) (ResourceState, error)

    CleanupRevisions(ctx context.Context, instanceID string) error
}
```

A state container deals with persisting and loading state for blueprint instances, this could be to files on disk, to a NoSQL or relational database or a remote object/file storage service.

The library does NOT come with any state container implementations, you must implement them yourself or use a library that extends the blueprint framework.

## Provider (provider.Provider)

```go
type Provider interface {

    Resource(resourceType string) Resource

    DataSource(dataSourceType string) DataSource

    Link(resourceTypeA string, resourceTypeB string) Link

    CustomVariableType(customVariableType string) CustomVariableType
}
```

A provider deals with validating, syncing state with the external software or system the provider represents, staging changes for approval
and deploying resources.

A provider is also responsible for implementing data sources that allows for dependencies between blueprints and sourcing data from external systems that have were deployed or created outside of the blueprint lifecycle.

_In the architecture diagram above, you will see the data source provider is a separate entity from the resource/link provider. This is purely like this to provide a clearer visualisation of the architecture and in code, data sources are a part of resource providers._

A provider can also provide custom variable types which are enum variable types with a fixed set of possible values; these are useful for a type of value with a large set of fixed possible values.

Finally, a provider is also responsible for implementing link implementations for links between resources.

In the case where there are links between resources that span multiple providers (e.g. AWS and Google Cloud), a provider needs to be implemented that represents the relationship between providers. In most cases this would be an abstraction that fulfils the provider interface that internally holds multiple providers. This will have it's own set of link implementations for resource types across providers.

The library does NOT come with any provider implementations, you must implement them yourself or use a library that extends the blueprint framework.

## SpecTransformer (transformer.SpecTransformer)

```go
type SpecTransformer interface {
    Transform(
        ctx context.Context,
        inputBlueprint *schema.Blueprint,
    ) (*schema.Blueprint, error)

    AbstractResource(resourceType string) AbstractResource
}
```

A spec transformer transforms a blueprint spec into an expanded form.
The primary purpose of a transformer is to allow users to define more concise specifications where a lot of detail can be abstracted away
during the blueprint development process and then expanded into a more detailed form for deployment.

## AbstractResource (transformer.AbstractResource)

```go
type AbstractResource interface {
    Validate(
        ctx context.Context,
        schemaResource *schema.Resource,
        params core.BlueprintParams,
    ) error
}
```

An abstract resource provides a way to validate a resource in an abstract (usually more concise) form before it is expanded into a more detailed form in the spec transformer implementation that the abstract resource belongs to.

## BlueprintCache (cache.BlueprintCache)

```go
type BlueprintCache interface {

    Get(
        ctx context.Context,
        key string,
    ) (*schema.Blueprint, error)

    Set(
        ctx context.Context,
        key string,
        blueprint *schema.Blueprint,
    ) error

    SetExpires(
        ctx context.Context,
        key string,
        blueprint *schema.Blueprint,
        expires time.Duration,
    ) error

    Delete(
        ctx context.Context,
        key string,
    ) error
}
```

The blueprint cache allows for the caching of expanded blueprint schemas to make loading blueprints that have been previously loaded without modifications more efficient.
For implementations that require a serialised form of the blueprint spec to store in a scalable cache, the `schema.Blueprint` struct can be serialised as a [Protocol Buffer](http://protobuf.dev/) using the built-in [ExpandedBlueprintSerialiser](#expandedblueprintserialiser-serialisationexpandedblueprintserialiser) and stored in the cache. _JSON and YAML serialisation can be used but will not store the blueprint in its expanded form so the primary benefits of caching will be lost. This is because the JSON and YAML serialisation will collapse `${..}` substitutions into strings and deserialisation will expand `${..}` substitutions._

The library does NOT come with any provider implementations, you must implement them yourself or use a library that extends the blueprint framework.

## ExpandedBlueprintSerialiser (serialisation.ExpandedBlueprintSerialiser)

```go
type ExpandedBlueprintSerialiser interface {

    Marshal(blueprint *schema.Blueprint) ([]byte, error)

    Unmarshal(data []byte) (*schema.Blueprint, error)
}
```

The expanded blueprint serialiser allows for the serialisation and deserialisation of expanded blueprint schemas, this is useful for storing expanded blueprint schemas in a cache or other storage mechanism.

This library comes with a single built-in expanded blueprint serialiser that uses [Protocol Buffers](http://protobuf.dev/) for serialisation and deserialisation. You can implement your own serialiser if you wish to use a different serialisation format.

Commit message:

feat(blueprint): add warning and info diagnostics support to validation interface

libs/blueprint/docs/ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

# Architecture

![blueprint architecture](../assets/BlueprintArchitectureOverview.png)

The blueprint framework provides a set of building blocks for creating systems
that can parse, validate and manage the lifecycle of blueprints.

A blueprint is a specification of resources the can be deployed to a upstream provider.
Providers are implemented on a per-namespace basis and there are no limitations around the type
of providers and resources that can be implemented in the model this library providers.

The blueprint specification can be found [here](https://celerityframework.com/docs/blueprint/specification).

The mechanism is focused on parsing and validating blueprints along with managing the life cycle
of blueprint instances with interfaces for you to implement your own resource providers
and state containers.

This does not facilitate the persistence of blueprints themselves or any type of versioning/diff checking
on blueprint specifications. If your application needs this, you'll need to implement that layer within your application or use a separate helper library.

The blueprint library does support caching blueprint specifications in their expanded form to make loading blueprints
that have been previously loaded without modifications more efficient.
This is significant as it allows skipping the need to parse each occurrence of a `${..}` substitution in the blueprint spec.

The state container provides an interface that allows cleaning up old revisions of blueprint instances,
management of retention policies is not in the scope of this library
and should be implemented by applications or other helper libraries that extend the blueprint framework.

Authentication and authorisation is out of scope for this library and should be implemented by applications or helper libraries that extend the blueprint framework.

_The following sections are interfaces for the high level components of the blueprint framework, you can find deeper documentation about lower level components like "Resource" or "CustomVariableType" in the [go docs](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/two-hundred/celerity/libs/blueprint) and in the [Celerity docs](https://www.celerityframework.com/docs/blueprint/intro)._

## Loader (container.Loader)

```go
type Loader interface {

    Load(
        ctx context.Context,
        blueprintSpecFile string,
        params bpcore.BlueprintParams,
    ) (BlueprintContainer, error)

    Validate(
        ctx context.Context,
        blueprintSpecFile string,
        params bpcore.BlueprintParams,
    ) (links.SpecLinkInfo, []*core.Diagnostic, error)

    LoadString(
        ctx context.Context,
        blueprintSpec string,
        inputFormat schema.SpecFormat,
        params bpcore.BlueprintParams,
    ) (BlueprintContainer, error)

    ValidateString(
        ctx context.Context,
        blueprintSpec string,
        inputFormat schema.SpecFormat,
        params bpcore.BlueprintParams,
    ) (links.SpecLinkInfo, []*core.Diagnostic, error)

    LoadFromSchema(
        ctx context.Context,
        blueprintSchema *schema.Blueprint,
        params bpcore.BlueprintParams,
    ) (BlueprintContainer, error)

    ValidateFromSchema(
        ctx context.Context,
        blueprintSchema *schema.Blueprint,
        params bpcore.BlueprintParams,
    ) (links.SpecLinkInfo, []*core.Diagnostic, error)
}
```

The loader deals with loading a spec from a file, a pre-loaded schema or a string, unmarshalling the JSON or YAML
and validating each resource in the spec with the configured resource providers.

Pre-loaded schemas are useful for caching expanded blueprint schemas to make loading blueprints that have been previously loaded without modifications more efficient. You can make use of the [BlueprintCache](#blueprintcache-cacheblueprintcache) to store and retrieve expanded blueprint schemas either side of loading a blueprint.

This contains methods for loading a blueprint container that can be used to deploy
and stage changes for instances or simply validating a spec without loading a blueprint container for it.

A loader needs to be instantiated with a map of namespace -> resource providers and a state container.
An example of a namespace would be `aws/`.

The library comes with a default container loader that should meet all your needs.

## Blueprint Container (container.BlueprintContainer)

```go
type BlueprintContainer interface {

    StageChanges(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        paramOverrides core.BlueprintParams,
    ) (BlueprintChanges, error)

    Deploy(ctx context.Context, instanceID string) (string, error)

    Destroy(ctx context.Context, instanceID string, revisionID string) error

    Rollback(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        revisionIDToRollback string,
        prevRevisionID string,
    ) error

    SpecLinkInfo() links.SpecLinkInfo

    Diagnostics() []*core.Diagnostic
}
```

The blueprint container deals with deploying or staging changes for an instance of a blueprint spec.
It is a container for a single blueprint spec that talks to the resource provider to stage and deploy changes.
It also uses the resource provider to get the latest state of resources from the external system represented
by the provider.
The container also talks to the state container to load blueprint instances, save changes after deployments
along with retrieving state for instances and resources in those instances.

The blueprint container needs to be instantiated with a a state container, a map of resource names -> resource providers, a blueprint spec
and a spec link info provider.

The library comes with a default blueprint container that should meet all your needs.

## Spec Link Info Provider (links.SpecLinkInfo)

```go
type SpecLinkInfo interface {

    Links(ctx context.Context) ([]*ChainLink, error)

    Warnings(ctx context.Context) ([]string, error)
}
```

The link info provider deals with extracting links from a spec to build out a chain link whilst catching some potential issues
with links in a given spec.

The link extractor needs to be instantiated with a map of resource names -> resource providers and a blueprint spec.

The library comes with a default link info provider that should meet all your needs.

## Blueprint Spec (speccore.BlueprintSpec)

```go
type BlueprintSpec interface {

    ResourceSchema(resourceName string) *schema.Resource

    Schema() *schema.Blueprint
}
```

The blueprint spec deals with providing the schema of a blueprint, its resources and a `*core.MappingNode` representation of the resource specification. The resource specification is everything under the the `spec` mapping in the
YAML or JSON input blueprint. The spec must be a `*core.MappingNode` to allow for the usage of substitutions (with `${..}` syntax); a concrete, user-defined struct would not allow for this.

The library comes with a default blueprint spec that should meet all your needs.

## State Container (state.Container)

```go
type Container interface {

    GetResource(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        resourceID string,
    ) (ResourceState, error)

    GetResourceForRevision(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        revisionID string,
        resourceID string,
    ) (ResourceState, error)

    GetInstance(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
    ) (InstanceState, error)

    GetInstanceRevision(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        revisionID string,
    ) (InstanceState, error)

    SaveInstance(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        instanceState InstanceState,
    ) (InstanceState, error)

    RemoveInstance(ctx context.Context, instanceID string) error

    RemoveInstanceRevision(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        revisionID string,
    ) error

    SaveResource(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        resourceID string,
        resourceState ResourceState,
    ) error

    RemoveResource(
        ctx context.Context,
        instanceID string,
        resourceID string,
    ) (ResourceState, error)

    CleanupRevisions(ctx context.Context, instanceID string) error
}
```

A state container deals with persisting and loading state for blueprint instances, this could be to files on disk, to a NoSQL or relational database or a remote object/file storage service.

The library does NOT come with any state container implementations, you must implement them yourself or use a library that extends the blueprint framework.

## Provider (provider.Provider)

```go
type Provider interface {

    Resource(resourceType string) Resource

    DataSource(dataSourceType string) DataSource

    Link(resourceTypeA string, resourceTypeB string) Link

    CustomVariableType(customVariableType string) CustomVariableType
}
```

A provider deals with validating, syncing state with the external software or system the provider represents, staging changes for approval
and deploying resources.

A provider is also responsible for implementing data sources that allows for dependencies between blueprints and sourcing data from external systems that have were deployed or created outside of the blueprint lifecycle.

_In the architecture diagram above, you will see the data source provider is a separate entity from the resource/link provider. This is purely like this to provide a clearer visualisation of the architecture and in code, data sources are a part of resource providers._

A provider can also provide custom variable types which are enum variable types with a fixed set of possible values; these are useful for a type of value with a large set of fixed possible values.

Finally, a provider is also responsible for implementing link implementations for links between resources.

In the case where there are links between resources that span multiple providers (e.g. AWS and Google Cloud), a provider needs to be implemented that represents the relationship between providers. In most cases this would be an abstraction that fulfils the provider interface that internally holds multiple providers. This will have it's own set of link implementations for resource types across providers.

The library does NOT come with any provider implementations, you must implement them yourself or use a library that extends the blueprint framework.

## SpecTransformer (transformer.SpecTransformer)

```go
type SpecTransformer interface {
    Transform(
        ctx context.Context,
        inputBlueprint *schema.Blueprint,
    ) (*schema.Blueprint, error)

    AbstractResource(resourceType string) AbstractResource
}
```

A spec transformer transforms a blueprint spec into an expanded form.
The primary purpose of a transformer is to allow users to define more concise specifications where a lot of detail can be abstracted away
during the blueprint development process and then expanded into a more detailed form for deployment.

## AbstractResource (transformer.AbstractResource)

```go
type AbstractResource interface {
    Validate(
        ctx context.Context,
        schemaResource *schema.Resource,
        params core.BlueprintParams,
    ) error
}
```

An abstract resource provides a way to validate a resource in an abstract (usually more concise) form before it is expanded into a more detailed form in the spec transformer implementation that the abstract resource belongs to.

## BlueprintCache (cache.BlueprintCache)

```go
type BlueprintCache interface {

    Get(
        ctx context.Context,
        key string,
    ) (*schema.Blueprint, error)

    Set(
        ctx context.Context,
        key string,
        blueprint *schema.Blueprint,
    ) error

    SetExpires(
        ctx context.Context,
        key string,
        blueprint *schema.Blueprint,
        expires time.Duration,
    ) error

    Delete(
        ctx context.Context,
        key string,
    ) error
}
```

The blueprint cache allows for the caching of expanded blueprint schemas to make loading blueprints that have been previously loaded without modifications more efficient.
For implementations that require a serialised form of the blueprint spec to store in a scalable cache, the `schema.Blueprint` struct can be serialised as a [Protocol Buffer](http://protobuf.dev/) using the built-in [ExpandedBlueprintSerialiser](#expandedblueprintserialiser-serialisationexpandedblueprintserialiser) and stored in the cache. _JSON and YAML serialisation can be used but will not store the blueprint in its expanded form so the primary benefits of caching will be lost. This is because the JSON and YAML serialisation will collapse `${..}` substitutions into strings and deserialisation will expand `${..}` substitutions._

The library does NOT come with any provider implementations, you must implement them yourself or use a library that extends the blueprint framework.

## ExpandedBlueprintSerialiser (serialisation.ExpandedBlueprintSerialiser)

```go
type ExpandedBlueprintSerialiser interface {

    Marshal(blueprint *schema.Blueprint) ([]byte, error)

    Unmarshal(data []byte) (*schema.Blueprint, error)
}
```

The expanded blueprint serialiser allows for the serialisation and deserialisation of expanded blueprint schemas, this is useful for storing expanded blueprint schemas in a cache or other storage mechanism.

This library comes with a single built-in expanded blueprint serialiser that uses [Protocol Buffers](http://protobuf.dev/) for serialisation and deserialisation. You can implement your own serialiser if you wish to use a different serialisation format.
