libs/build-engine/README.md, before:

# Celerity Build Engine

[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=two-hundred_celerity-build-engine&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=two-hundred_celerity-build-engine)
[![Security Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=two-hundred_celerity-build-engine&metric=security_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=two-hundred_celerity-build-engine)
[![Maintainability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=two-hundred_celerity-cli&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=two-hundred_celerity-build-engine)

The core build engine that provides the ability to validate, build and deploy applications
created with the Celerity framework.

In addition to library APIs for validating, building and deploying, the also engine provides a registry of Celerity resource types, persistence layer implementations and other plugins for the blueprint framework.

## Additional documentation

- [Contributing](docs/CONTRIBUTING.md)

Commit message:

wip(build-engine): add work in progress for build engine and plugin system

libs/build-engine/README.md, after:

# Celerity Build Engine

[![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=two-hundred_celerity-build-engine&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=two-hundred_celerity-build-engine)
[![Security Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=two-hundred_celerity-build-engine&metric=security_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=two-hundred_celerity-build-engine)
[![Maintainability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=two-hundred_celerity-cli&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=two-hundred_celerity-build-engine)

The core build engine that provides the ability to validate, build and deploy applications
created with the Celerity framework.

In addition to library APIs for validating, building and deploying, the also engine provides a registry of Celerity resource types, persistence layer implementations and other plugins for the blueprint framework.

The build engine comes with an optional gRPC-based plugin system that allows for the creation of custom plugins for providers and transformers that can be pulled in at runtime.

## Additional documentation

- [Contributing](docs/CONTRIBUTING.md)
